

The files contain the python code used to construct a 'marine boundary layer' (mbl) gridded surface
of mixing ratio as a function of time and latitude for meaurements of an atmospheric trace
gas, such as co2.  See https://www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/ccgg/mbl/ for more information.


REQUIRED:

	 - An init file.  The init file list the sites and curve fitting parameters that
	are to be used to construct the mbl surface.  An example init file is 'init.co2.txt'.
	The init file must contain 3 non-commented header lines (lines beginning with '#' are comments).
	The first line is " sync1    sync2     rlm   fillgap   mblgap" which explains the fields
	in the second line. The second line has values, such as
		1979     2015     2.0         8       48
	which are the start date, end date, minimum length of record in years, and the size of
	gaps (in days) which will be filled in by the curve fits that will be done to the data.
	The third line identifies the fields in the remainder of the file.
	The remaining lines give the site code and curve fitting parameter for each site, and a
	0/1 flag if the site is to be used in the mbl construction.  
	See https://www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/ccgg/mbl/crvfit/crvfit.html for more information on the
	curve fitting process.

OPTIONAL:

	Data and site information can be obtained from either the gmd database or from text files.
	To get data from text files, you will need:

	- Site information file.  This file gives information for the sites listed in the init file.
	There is one line of data for each site, and each line contains 8 fields seperated by 
	a '|' character: 
		site code, name, country, latitude, longitude, elevation, intake height, comment
	The site code and latitude are most important, and the code must match (case insensitive) the
	code used in the init file.  An example file is 'siteinfo.txt', which has information for
	known sites that the Global Monitoring Laboratory (GML) of NOAA uses.


	- Data files.  These contain the input data that are used to construct the mbl surface.
	There is one file for each site, with two columns of data, a decimal date and a mixing ratio.
	Examples are contained in the 'data' directory.  The name of the data file must be
	the site code, followed by '_dat.' followed by the gas, ie 'co2'.  For example, 'alt_dat.co2'
	for data from the Alert station in Canada.

Dependencies:

	The code requires these python packages be installed:
		numpy
		scipy
		dateutil
		MySQLdb or pymysql
		

Python Code files:

	The main code used is in the file 'dei.py', which contains a class for performing the 
	mbl calculations.  An example of using this module is in the file 'dei_driver.py', and
	an example of calling the driver script is in the 'dei.sh' bash shell script.

	bs_network.py - Routine for creating bootstrap networks from original site list.
	ccg_data.py - Contains routines for reading the data files.
	ccg_dates.py - Routines for converting dates from one format to another
	ccg_db.py - Routines for accessing the gmd database
	ccg_filter.py - Performs the curve fitting and filtering of the data
	ccg_pptfit.py - Calculates latitude gradients
	ccg_quickfilter.py - Performs  outlier rejection of the data (not used when using data from text files).
	ccg_readinit.py - Reads the init file
	ccg_siteinfo.py - Reads the site information file (called by ccg_readinit.py)
	ccg_utils.py - Utility routines needed by the software
	dei_bs.py - Main class for summarizing bootstrap uncertainty calculations
	dei_bs_driver.py - Python script to create the dei_bs class and summarizes bootstrap runs
	dei.py - Main class for performing mbl calculations
	dei_driver.py - Python script to create the dei class and run the mbl calculations.
	dei_effective_unc.py - Python script to add together all the bootstrap surface files 
		and compute total effective uncertainty

	The python code will run under python >=2.6, and requires the numpy, scipy, and MySQL-python packages to be
	available. 


Output:
	Numerous files are created, but the main result is a file called 'surface.mbl.co2', 
	which has the values of the mbl surface at each surface grid point.  A similar file
	'surface.growthrate.mbl.co2' has the growth rate values (ppm/year) derived from the
	mbl surface file.  The results are placed in a directory specified by the 'resultsdir' variable
	in the creation of the dei class.

To run the calculations, look at the dei.sh and dei_driver.py scripts, and modify or create similar
scripts to create the mbl.
